---
tags: ['post', 'weeknotes']
title: Weeknotes, W7-2024
date: 2024-02-19
---

### Work

- I'm working on a High Profile project I won't go into beyond saying that the portion of it I'm working on is a big Typescript/React project. I've been working on improving test coverage, and wrapped up testing a giant chunk of the front-end portion of the knowledge graph that drives the project. 
- Unrelated to project work, I had a big, stressful choice to make I'm being purposefully vague about. I was a wreck about it for about 24 hours, but once I had made a decision about it, I was serene as could be.

### Things I read
- [Tailwind marketing and misinformation engine](https://nuejs.org/blog/tailwind-misinformation-engine/) - I'll confess to having a strong anti-Tailwind bias. That said, I did recently go through the Frontend Masters [Tailwind course](https://frontendmasters.com/courses/tailwind-css/) course. I enjoyed it and came away with a better sense of when and why I might use Tailwind (for prototypes—it's for prototypes). So I have softened a bit in my opposition to Tailwind, but reading through this piece really drove home what a bizarrely toxic presence Tailwind's leadership is in the webdev ecosystem. Read the post and look at the keynote slides in there and come up with your own conclusion I guess but after seeing that stuff, it's not a mystery why online conversations about Tailwind are so pitched. 
### Training

- I've been training olympic lifts full-time for 3 weeks now (5x/week, up from 3x/week + CrossFit), and I feel like I'm really starting to see some big technical improvements, especially in the snatch.
- My conditioning is noticeably declining, though. That's something I need to address, but in a way that doesn't detract too much from my main training goals.
