---
tags: ['post', 'weeknotes']
title: Weeknotes, Week 48(?) 2024
date: 2024-11-28
---

### Work

- This was my second week no longer being at 18F and serving full-time as eng. lead for <abbr title="U.S. Web Design System">USWDS</abbr>. I had big plans to make some progress on some ADRs I need to write. I made just slightly less progress than intended (read: none at all).
- Not work as such, but it's been fun noodling on this website again. I like the colors. I like the octopus. Upgrading to Eleventy 3.0 was a breeze (probably because I'm barely using it so there weren't any breaking changes that actually impacted me and switching to esmodules meant changing, like, three lines). 

### Things I read

- [CSS Parts are saving you from a nightmare](https://dev.to/michaelwarren1106/css-parts-are-saving-you-1k79) by Michael Warren. This is a response to some criticism of CSS shadow parts on an episode of [Shop Talk](https://shoptalkshow.com/640/). The criticism boils down to Chris and Dave wanting a "I know what I'm doing" selector for styling custom element internals. Warren's post argues, in essence: even if you think you want that, you really don't—at least not if you're using someone else's components. CSS Parts are part of the API surface of a custom element (along with any attributes, slots, custom properties, or public methods the component exposes). If you're using someone else's code and don't want stuff to break all the time, you should stick to using the public API!

### Hobbies

- Last week of the current block in this technique cycle. Next week's a deload (boooooo). But I did hit my old strict press 1RM for an easy triple!
- I have also been running and I'm in a good place with that. It's a nice thing to do a few times a week and feel like my heart and lungs are in good shape.
- I've been coasting on language learning a bit this week.
